1. In Arduino, loops happens when a block of code is executed over and over again and creates cycles called iterations. It can be controlled with certain conditions. For loops are frequently used to increment and decrement counters, or to initialize large numbers of pins at the same time. For loops evaluate a set of three parameters – the initialization value, the condition, and the iteration. For the while-loop, if the condition is true, the program will enter the body of the while loop and execute the body code in a loop for as long as the condition remains true. For the do-while loop, they work the same way as regular while loops, except that the body code is executed before the test for the condition occurs
2. The **if statement** is the most basic of all programming control structures. It allows you to make something happen or not, depending on whether a given condition is true. The **else statement** starts an event if the given condition is false. While, the **else if statement** can check a second condition if the first is false.
3. In order for the software to use trigonometric functions, the developer should include "math.h" library in the code as it contains the trigonometric function prototypes. The sine function calculates the sine of an angle, cosine function calculates the cosine of an angle, and the tangent calculates the tangent of an angle. The answer is always returned in radians.
4. I/O is done in Arduino in many methods. The pins on the Arduino board can be configured as either inputs or outputs using the pinMode function. The choice of mode is either input, input_pullup or output.